# Welcome to Pleonasma

Hey there, you *Homosapien*. You are most welcome to check out the source for my blog website. By the way, did you even know that **Pleonasm** is a real word? Don't worry, it's not any tech stuff you're missing out from.

It means:
> The use of more words than are necessary to convey meaning, either as a fault of style or for emphasis.

I found it fascinating, and that's why I chose to call my blog as it is.

## Why behind everything?

I started writing code since I was 12, mostly because I had to in order to pass my school exams. I remember back then, I was confused about everything I was gonna do or be after school. In a nutshell, I had no life other than school. But, way back when I was 14 I fortunately was in good terms with few kids from my school who were into a phenomenon, called *Hackathon*. It took a while to wrap my head around that. But after I did a bit of research I found, that was the coolest thing I've ever seen. The way these colorful lines can bring order and magnificence in people's lives and without even people knowing the hard work it was to bring this tech to life, blew my mind away. I mean, these tech wasn't there since time immemorial rather, it was something people build for themselves to make lives easier. 

And as a kid, I always wondered why the things were how they were and what if they were wired differently and so. I had to try these out, if no one else, just to see if they can make our lives better than before. And in order to do that, I explored what possibly can I do. Because that ain't something they taught at my primeval school or anywhere else, I suppose. I kept doing peer research, participating in social camps and of course using the internet. It didn't take me long that ```code``` backs up everything. I literally was moved my the mere knowing, that even a flashing LED toy is built with some form of code. And I summoned with my teenage wits that, this was what I'm gonna start with to built real things of my imagination.

As the story goes, I took part not in the hackathon itself but in the organising team when I was 14. I had no clue what HTML spelt in full, back then. I mostly got into volunteer work in the eve, I was thrown out the next year from the team because I failed in my promise to make a teaser video for them, by which I meant start learning *Premiere Pro*! But those couple of days gave me a clue into what these people would be doing at big tech companies and of course what happens at a Hackathon. I then started my own journey of life.

But school was hard for a 15 y/o kid, and residing in a family home had to bide by set of rules, like doing homework on time, going to bed at 10, studying at home what was taught in school, literally clueless where the ends gonna meet. I had to bide by them due to these societial hardships. I was never told to invest on my dreams or ever think beyond what was expected by a school kid. Soon, I had to move to a different state for higher secondary studies. I learnt to live on my own there. I really loved the nature there and had a great deal of time to follow my intuition. Although the studies ate up all my weeks, I survived to read some of great novels in history there. In a nutshell, my 2 years went in trying to figure things out about what I wanted to do after school and how shall I escape the ordinary cycle of life and status quo. I literally was confident enough to run out of school and build my life from scratch myself. Kudos to my survival skills for being surpassed those days.

After April '19, I was finally relieved from the place half-home-half-school and brought back to my original home, which I was so glad to have left behind. The idea of spending a year more at this place again killed me inside. I use to have anxiety attacks and literally had nothing to do. And was fool enough to fall into the worldly trap of distractions which I often encountered. After a while, finally I remembered my instincts for making things and coding for which I started reading blogs and wondering how to make a start. Back then, Python was a lot hyped of being a beginner friendly language and yet used in most of the tech stuff out there. So I thought it was a one step solution for everything I ever wanted. I began straight away with some blogs, youtubers and an Udemy course for accountability. I remember I learnt that passionately for a month or little more. After which I got some insights into this start-up culture and how it can bring a collective impact on our society. And as always, I had a lot going on in my mind about how things can be better. I simply can't chose what to work on and how. This is where I hadn't thought through what exactly a start-up was, but pretty sure I had to do something for this society, never been done before. 

### A bag of everything

Literally, me getting confused over bunch of ideas to work on didn't turn quite well but ended up giving a quite different and insight into what I thought can bring a change in lives of school kids. This appeared due to the reason, no one really cared about my ideas of future while I was a kid and no one to help me with projects which I summed in my little mind can be the change. I wanted to make a forum/space for those kids which kind of wanted to work on their ideas, maybe catch them up with sponsors and people to work with. I had a couple of friends who took responsibility for making this with me. End of the story, I needed a landing page. And I was the one to handle tech among our team, apparently who had no clue about that. As always I showed up and went to make a website. This time I knew what HTML spelt in full. I ended up knowing what has been my biggest discovery yet, a website we see is more than HTML. It's a grand application using stacks of programming languages which I have heard in that amateur *hackathon* of mine. And above all, I had the zeal to learn them and being able to make useful apps the world can depend on. I always knew it was coming, I saw how our lives are unimaginable without these tech. 

### Landing in Egelloc

It was time my college had to begin. Oh yeah, *Egelloc is college spelt backwards*! It was around August '19 and I was so into web development, that I had already set my LinkedIn to *a frontend developer* and took pledge to become one by the end of the month. But as the saying goes by, **David T. Freeman**,

> “The more you know, the more you realise how much you don't know — the less you know, the more you think you know.”

I had to keep pushing the bar to build the website for my team and it was the only thing I was into. Soon, college gobbled up my time and don't know what the f**king plan they had in mind to make me an engineer that they kept teaching this subjects in a weird-less-enthusiastic manner and had a rock-weight syllabus to finish within months. I had my aim broke from college, I don't think anymore of that making me an engineer but more of a job-holder and income-seeker which can run the cycle of life as everybody else. I am in my freshmen year still, and I'm writing this is December '19 only. I was working myself on that website in time left over from, 40 hours of college and around 40 more for sleep. All I want is to become a developer and didn't feel the need of college for that. And as the college exams appeared, I was working harder to finish learning to build websites and apply for a dev workplace where I can get the learning of a lifetime. By now, my team was actually shattered for the start-up idea I had, because of their lives at college. Whereas, I still find myself in a sleepless night wandering how I can build things from the shady ideas I had once I was a kid. I at least now know, what it's going to take, despite of a failed start-up. I won't like to let myself down again. 

### Chapter of Pleonasma

I totally love to hangout with people and tell them how things could turn otherwise and discuss about how ruined our education system is. I needed a place where I could reach to greater masses with all I had to say, once and for all. As of now, I'm learning to build **MERN Stack Apps** from scratch and awaiting my **Hacktoberfest Tee** to arrive. I am in love with **Open Source** and won't ever miss a chance of my order to contribute to them. And more importantly, I wanted something to show up to the world and to me what I learnt each day and thoughts on being a **Lacto Vegetarian** which I am, hoping it would help *someone, someday* having a life with hards. I believe in **Work and Atheism** and giving back to the community our best of lives.

As rightfully worded by Irish playwright, George Bernard Shaw:

> This is the true joy in life, being used for a purpose recognized by yourself as a mighty one... I am of the opinion that my life belongs to the whole community, and as long as I live it is my privilege to do for it whatever I can... I want to be thoroughly used up when I die, for the harder I work the more I live. 

## And Nice to Meet You!

Tulsi Prasad.